<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusions</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/twitter-1.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div>
            <!--#include virtual="inc/nav.html" -->
            <div class="pageTitle">Conclusions</div>
            <div class="hasBackground">
                <h2>Results</h2>
                <p>While we hypothesized that the frequency of a word's usage would be positively correlated with time, we did not find much of a correlation at all. Regression analyses using Microsoft Excel demonstrated that a word's popularity is only very weakly correlated with time; the R-square value for "Mephistophelian" was ~0.019 and "schlumpy"'s was ~0.157. Nor did we observe a spike in popularity after the Oxford Dictionary posted the words' induction in 2013.</p>
                <p>However, we did find a strong correlation between the passage of time and a word's interactivity (retweet rate and favorite rate). This correlation suggests that the words share in the popular consciousness did in fact grow over time.</p>
                <p>Finally, our gender analysis revealed that women use "schlumpy" at a significantly higher relative rate than they do "Mephistophelian." We will not here attempt an explanation for this discrepancy.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="hasBackground">
                <h2>Looking forward</h2>
                <p>If we were to continue our investigation, we would focus on fixing the scraper so that we could collect datasets for the other words we hoped to study. Our present corpus is rather small and includes only very uncommon words, so we probably do not have a representative sample of neologisms; this might explain why we were not able to find strong correlations in the data. Gathering data for more common words would also permit additional types of research that we were not able to conduct with our limited corpus. For example, we had hoped to do a geographic analysis by plotting neologism usage in four dimensions—the three dimensions of space and the one of time—but since so few users include their location on their profile, our corpus did not offer enough geographic data points.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/commonsLicense.html" -->
    </body>
</html>