<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Twitter Neologisms</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/twitter-1.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div>
            <!--#include virtual="inc/nav.html" -->
<<<<<<< HEAD
                <div class="pageTitle">Twitter Neologisms</div>
                <div class="hasBackground"><h2>Research Question: </h2><p>We will be looking at the effect of the Oxford
                    Dictionary’s descriptive addition of neologisms on the salience of the word.
                    Twitter will be our medium for looking at salience. We will be using a Python
                    script to scrape tweets from Twitter two years before the neologisms are
                    published, one year before hand, the month they are published, and a year after
                    publishing. This will all be in an effort to find a correlation between official
                    recognition and actual usage. Twenty randomly selected words will be used. Our
                    research will be limited to the English speaking world.</p></div>
            <div class="hasBackground"><h2>Why Twitter?</h2><p>Twitter is an informal form of social networking that allows 
                users to post 140 character "tweets" for all of their followers to view.  These tweets, while not bearing 
                all too much content value, are being subject to minimal code switching.  Register is defined by Halliday an Hasan as "the total event, in which the text is functioning, together with the purposive activity of the speaker or writer; includes subject-matter as one of the elements"The idea is that when speaking with
            peers, ones register will be different than when writing papers or articles. Researching informal registers 
            is notoriously difficult for linguists, with participants being primed to notice their speech in a study. 
            Labov famously circumvented this problem by asking strangers on different levels of a department store to 
            look for non-rhotic 'r's.  For that same reason, we begin scraping twitter for language use.</p></div>
            <div class="hasBackground"><h2>Midterm links</h2>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="rzodkiewicz_midterm.xhtml">Rzodkiewicz Graph 1 - "Mephistophelian" Usage</a></li>
                    <li><a href="rzodkiewicz_midterm2.xhtml">Rzodkiewicz Graph 2 - "Schlumpy" Usage</a></li>
                    <li><a href="images/twitter_lineGraph_SVG">McIntyre Graph 1 - "Mephistophelian" Favorite/Retweet</a></li>
                    <li><a href="images/twitter_lineGraph_SVG">McIntyre Graph 2 - "Schlumpy" Favorite/Retweet</a></li>
                </ul></div>
=======
            <div class="pageTitle">Twitter Neologisms</div>
            <div class="hasBackground"><h2>Research Question: </h2><p>We will be looking at the
                    effect of the Oxford Dictionary’s descriptive addition of neologisms on the
                    salience of the word. Twitter will be our medium for looking at salience. We
                    will be using a Python script to scrape tweets from Twitter two years before the
                    neologisms are published, one year before hand, the month they are published,
                    and a year after publishing. This will all be in an effort to find a correlation
                    between official recognition and actual usage. Twenty randomly selected words
                    will be used. Our research will be limited to the English speaking
                world.</p></div>
            <div class="hasBackground"><h2>Why Twitter?</h2><p>Twitter is an informal form of social
                    networking that allows users to post 140 character "tweets" for all of their
                    followers to view. These tweets, while not bearing all too much content value,
                    are being subject to minimal code switching. Register is defined by Halliday an
                    Hasan as "the total event, in which the text is functioning, together with the
                    purposive activity of the speaker or writer; includes subject-matter as one of
                    the elements"The idea is that when speaking with peers, ones register will be
                    different than when writing papers or articles. Researching informal registers
                    is notoriously difficult for linguists, with participants being primed to notice
                    their speech in a study. Labov famously circumvented this problem by asking
                    strangers on different levels of a department store to look for non-rhotic 'r's.
                    For that same reason, we began scraping twitter for language use.</p></div>
>>>>>>> origin/master
            <div class="hasBackground"><h2>Neologisms</h2>
                <em>Randomized Neologism Selections:</em>
                <p>
                    live-blog, 
                    head, 
                    trip, 
                    heart-scalding, 
                    post-racial, 
                    salat, 
                    handed-down, 
                    schlumpy, 
                    Mephistophelian, 
                    Kombucha, 
                    trans.
                </p><br />
                <em>Possible Words from the June 2013 Publication of the Oxford Dictionary
                    Online:</em>
                <p>
                    flash mob, 
                    fracking, 
                    fun day, 
                    gam, 
                    geekery, 
                    hand brake, 
                    hand roll, 
                    hand-balling, 
                    hand-block, 
                    handed-down, 
                    handel, 
                    hand-holding, 
                    handicapping, 
                    handled, 
                    handmake, 
                    hand-off, 
                    handover, 
                    handpass, 
                    hand-print, 
                    hand-printed, 
                    hand-punching, 
                    hand-signalling | hand-signaling, 
                    hand-sold, 
                    handwash, 
                    hand-wash, 
                    hand-wringer, 
                    handy-dandy, 
                    head nodding, 
                    head space, 
                    head trip, 
                    head woman, 
                    headbang, 
                    headcam, 
                    headfuck, 
                    headfuck, 
                    headfucking, 
                    headmistressy, 
                    head-nodding, 
                    headstand, 
                    headstander, 
                    head-stay, 
                    headstay, 
                    head-to-toe, 
                    headways, 
                    hearth-pace, 
                    hearthstoning, 
                    heart-in-mouth, 
                    heart-scalded, 
                    heart-scalding, 
                    heart-stopper, 
                    heart-stopping, 
                    imbongi, 
                    interoperability, 
                    jolly hockey sticks, 
                    knobhead, 
                    kombucha, 
                    live blog, 
                    live-blog, 
                    live-blogging, 
                    mani-pedi, 
                    Mephistophelian, 
                    microbiome, 
                    mochaccino, 
                    mouseover, 
                    parasomnia, 
                    phorbeia, 
                    post-racial, 
                    Randian, 
                    red velvet, 
                    Russell Group, 
                    salat, 
                    schlumpy, 
                    sega, 
                    showrunner, 
                    smackhead, 
                    smeg, syrtos, 
                    trans, 
                    transman, 
                    transperson, 
                    transphobia, 
                    transphobic, 
                    transwoman, 
                    travers, 
                    trixie, 
                    veepstakes, 
                    watch fob, 
                    youngult. 
                </p>
            </div>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/commonsLicense.html" -->
    </body>
</html>
